README.md, before:

# 🧠 DSA Notes

This repository contains my complete Data Structures & Algorithms learning journey including **300+ solved problems**, handwritten notes, patterns, and summaries.

The purpose of this repo is to build a strong foundation for **coding interviews, competitive programming, and placement preparation.**

---

## 🚀 Repository Structure

All topics are organized folder-wise for easy navigation and revision:

| Category | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| 🧮 Arrays | Classic problems, patterns, prefix-sum, hashing, 2-pointer technique |
| 🔍 Binary Search | Search templates, boundaries, rotated arrays, optimization tricks |
| 🌲 Binary Tree | Traversals, tree views, recursion patterns, diameter, LCA |
| 🧬 Linked List | Fast/slow pointers, reversal patterns, cycle detection, merge operations |
| 🧠 Dynamic Programming | DP on LIS, subsequences, strings, grids, knapsack, stock problems |
| 🧱 Graphs | BFS/DFS, shortest paths, cycle detection, Union-Find, MST algorithms |
| ⚙️ Greedy Algorithms | Optimization-based decisions, interval scheduling, activity selection |
| 🧩 Recursion | Backtracking templates, permutations, combinations |
| 🏗️ Sliding Window | Fixed & dynamic window patterns, frequency maps, substring problems |
| 📚 Stack & Queue | Monotonic structures, postfix evaluation, BFS-based queue usage |
| 🧮 Sorting Algorithms | Basic to optimized sorting approaches and theory |
| 🧱 Heaps | Priority queues, top-k problems, scheduling logic |
| 🧵 Strings | Pattern matching, hashing, frequency problems |
| 💹 SQL | Filtering, Sorting, Joins, Subquery problems | 

---

## 📌 Highlights

- ✔️ 300+ solved problems with reusable templates  
- ✔️ Topic-wise structured notes for fast revision  
- ✔️ Focused on clarity, intuition, and optimization
- ✔️ Added questions link for each problem - no more search!
---

## 🧰 Tech & Tools

- **Language:** C++, MySQL  
- **Note System:** Obsidian  
- **Version Control:** Git & GitHub  

---

## 🎯 Goal

> Build a complete, searchable, revision-friendly archive to strengthen logic, pattern recognition, and interview readiness for any SDE aspirant beyond just solving problems.

---

## 🛠 Future Additions

- 🧱 Core CS Fundamentals (OS, CN)
- 💡 Add system design cases
- 👱🏻 HR/Project QnA template



---

<div align="center"> 
  <img width="350" height="1000" src="https://media4.giphy.com/media/TvTvFbe0bnNVjhq0MB/giphy.gif"/> 
  <p> One day they’ll call it talent — until then, it's work.</p>
</div>

---

## 🤝 Contributions

This is a personal learning archive, but suggestions, improvements, and discussions are welcome.

---

## ⭐ Show Support

If this repo helps you or you want to revisit it later consider giving it a star!

---

### 🏁 _“DSA is not about remembering questions, it’s about understanding patterns.”_  
💬 - me, pretending to sound wise 😅

Commit message:

Revise README to update problem count and topics
Updated the repository to reflect an increase in solved problems from 300 to 320, and added content related to SQL and JavaScript for MERN tech stack roles.

README.md, after:

# 🧠 Kit

This repository contains my complete Data Structures & Algorithms learning journey including **320+ solved problems**, handwritten notes, patterns, and summaries.  
It has now been updated to include mostly asked questions of `SQL` and `JavaScript ( specifically for MERN tech stack roles )`.

> 🎯 **Purpose:** Build a strong foundation for **coding interviews, competitive programming, and placement preparation**.


---

## 🚀 Repository Structure

All topics are organized folder-wise for easy navigation and revision:

| Category | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| 🧮 Arrays | Classic problems, patterns, prefix-sum, hashing, 2-pointer technique |
| 🔍 Binary Search | Search templates, boundaries, rotated arrays, optimization tricks |
| 🌲 Binary Tree | Traversals, tree views, recursion patterns, diameter, LCA |
| 🧬 Linked List | Fast/slow pointers, reversal patterns, cycle detection, merge operations |
| 🧠 Dynamic Programming | DP on LIS, subsequences, strings, grids, knapsack, stock problems |
| 🧱 Graphs | BFS/DFS, shortest paths, cycle detection, Union-Find, MST algorithms |
| ⚙️ Greedy Algorithms | Optimization-based decisions, interval scheduling, activity selection |
| 🧩 Recursion | Backtracking templates, permutations, combinations |
| 🏗️ Sliding Window | Fixed & dynamic window patterns, frequency maps, substring problems |
| 📚 Stack & Queue | Monotonic structures, postfix evaluation, BFS-based queue usage |
| 🧮 Sorting Algorithms | Basic to optimized sorting approaches and theory |
| 🧱 Heaps | Priority queues, top-k problems, scheduling logic |
| 🧵 Strings | Pattern matching, hashing, frequency problems |
| 💹 SQL | Filtering, Sorting, Joins, Subquery problems | 
| 👨🏻‍💻 JS | Closures, Array/Function transformations, Promises, Classes |

---

## 📌 Highlights

- ✔️ 300+ solved problems with reusable templates  
- ✔️ Topic-wise structured notes for fast revision  
- ✔️ Focused on clarity, intuition, and optimization
- ✔️ Added questions link for each problem - no more search!
- ✔️ Added FAQs of SQL and JS(MERN roles) for further assistance.
---

## 🧰 Tech & Tools

- **Language:** C++, MySQL, JS
- **Note System:** Obsidian  
- **Version Control:** Git & GitHub  

---

## 🎯 Goal

> Build a complete, searchable, revision-friendly archive to strengthen logic, pattern recognition, and interview readiness for any SDE aspirant beyond just solving problems.

---

## 🛠 Future Additions

- 🧱 Core CS Fundamentals (OS, CN)
- 💡 Add system design cases
- 👱🏻 HR/Project QnA template



---

<div align="center"> 
  <img width="350" height="1000" src="https://media4.giphy.com/media/TvTvFbe0bnNVjhq0MB/giphy.gif"/> 
  <p> One day they’ll call it talent — until then, it's work.</p>
</div>

---

## 🤝 Contributions

This is a personal learning archive, but suggestions, improvements, and discussions are welcome.

---

## ⭐ Show Support

If this repo helps you or you want to revisit it later consider giving it a star!

---

### 🏁 _“DSA is not about remembering questions, it’s about understanding patterns.”_  
💬 - me, pretending to sound wise 😅
